So the first of the issues that we want to
look at is whether or not the neck is warping
or bowing in any way. And so we'll use our
steel rule, and lay it on the frets themselves
in between the strings, in this case, and
while it's laying on the edge, we will look
through this, and I usually will do this against
a light source like a window, and see if there's
any gaps. If the neck is warped, we will start
to see gaps under the straight edge in the
area of the greatest warp. And on this instrument,
there are no warps, this is a good, level
neck, so it does not need to have a truss
rod adjustment. But let's assume that it does
need a truss rod adjustment. The way that
we would address that is to use the truss
rod adjustment tool, find the truss rod Allen
socket, and very carefully, insert this in
there. And if the neck is warped, bowed a
little bit, we will make a slight adjustment,
no more than one quarter of a turn at a time,
and then let it set for ten minutes, and see
if that adjusts the neck to a level, and then
come back and test it again. The only danger
with a truss rod adjustment is don't go too
far, and don't force it, no more than a quarter
turn at a time. Usually the truss rod adjustment
will be toward the counter-clockwise, or clockwise
in this particular case, because it's backwards,
in order to create a leveling. Your instruction
manual should tell you which way to go, different
truss rods go different ways.